everyone is talking about mcps it's gone
completely viral but the reality is most
people have no idea what mcps are and
what they mean and what are the startup
opportunities associated with it so in
this episode I brought Professor Ross
Mike who is probably the the best
explainer of technical Concepts in a
really easy way that someone who's
non-technical can really understand I
brought him on he explains it
beautifully in such a short amount of
time and if you stick to the end you'll
hear a couple of his startup ideas that
incorporate mcps so um enjoy the episode
and see you
[Music]
soon all right well we got Professor
Ross Mike on the Pod um and the reason
why we have him is because I don't know
what the hell mcps are and I've been
seeing it on X and I need a succinct
clear Professor Ross Mike
explanation um yes I've read a bunch of
threads on it and I've seen a couple
videos on it but there's nothing like a
Ross mic explanation so I'm here for the
what do I need to know about mcps and
that's that's what that's why you're
here thank you for coming on I I I
appreciate that thank you very much yeah
class is definitely in session I'll just
start um sharing my
screen okay so understanding
mCP um is
really um important uh but you'll also
realize the benefits and why it's sort
of a big deal but not really at the same
time you see one of the things in
programming land that we have and that
programmers love are standards and the
reason why standards are important is
they allow for us Engineers to build
systems that communicate with each other
the most popular one that you know you
might have heard of or you might not and
you don't really need to know the
details is rest rest apis and they're
basically a standard that every company
follows when they construct their apis
when they construct their services for
me as an engineer to be able to connect
with them now understanding that
engineering is all about standards and
having these formalities we follow to
make life easier when we think of in the
context of an llm I want you to
understand this one important thing llms
by themselves are incapable of doing
anything meaningful what do I mean by
that if you remember the first you know
chat gbt 3 or was it 3.5 I'm not sure
but if you just open any chat bot and
you tell it to send you an email um it
won't know how to do that it will just
tell you hey I can't send you an email
the most you can do with an llm is ask
it questions uh maybe ask it to tell you
about some historical figure whatever it
may be right um llms are truly incapable
of doing anything uh meaningful and what
I mean by meaningful it'd be nice if you
know it could send me an email um if it
could um do some specific task on my
behalf but the only thing an llm in its
current state is good at is predicting
the next text right so for example if I
say My Big Fat Greek and llm with all
the data source with all its training
material will determine that the next
word is wedding right so this is the
most an llm by itself that it could do
right the next Evolution was developers
figured out how to take llms and combine
them with tools and you can think of a
tool like an API for example um most of
us are aware where chat gbt and these
other chat Bots are able to search the
internet for example perplexity right
perplexity gives you the option to chat
with an llm but that llm has the ability
to fetch um information from the
internet and present that to you the llm
itself is not capable of doing that but
what they've done is they've constructed
a tool they've given the llm access to
an external service right and there's
plenty of these Services right I think
there's Brave search
um chat open AI offers an API now so
llms have started to become a bit more
powerful when we connected tools to them
right I can give you an example let's
say um let's say every time I get an
email I want there to be an entry in a
spreadsheet now most of you know there
are services like zapier end8 or you
know any of those Automation
Services if I build out an autom
and connect that to my llm it just
became a bit more meaningful now that's
awesome and cool but it gets really
frustrating when you want to build an
assistant that does multiple things
imagine search the internet um read your
emails summarize this you start to
become someone who glues a bunch of
different tools to these llms and it can
get very frustrating very cumbersome if
you're wondering why we don't have have
an Iron Man level Jarvis assistant is
because combining these tools making it
work with the llm is one thing but then
stacking these tools on top of each
other making it cohesive making it work
together is a nightmare itself and this
is where we're currently at and does
before I continue does this make sense
this is where we started llms by
themselves write me a poem um you know
tell me about World War I um and then
the second evolution is oh we now have
tools right we now have um these things
these external services that we can
connect to our llm the problem here is
they're difficult it's annoying and as
someone who works at an AI startup Tempo
and we have a lot of tools like for
example we do a search um you have to
find an external service you have to
connect it to the llm and you have to
make sure the llm doesn't hallucinate or
do something stupid and believe it or
not as cool as llms are by themselves
they're very very dumb um but these
tools make them just a bit more capable
so this is where we're at uh Greg we
good so far crystal clear I'm loving
this beautiful quick break in the Pod to
tell you a little bit about startup
Empire so startup Empire is my private
membership where it's a bunch of people
like me like you who want to build out
their startup ideas now they're looking
for content to help accelerate that
they're looking for potential
co-founders they're looking for uh
tutorials from people like me to come in
and tell them how do you do email
marketing how do you build an audience
how do you go viral on Twitter all these
different things that's exactly what
startup Empire is and it's for people
who want to start a startup but are
looking for ideas or it's for people who
have a startup but just they're not
seeing the traction uh that they need so
you can check out the link to Startup
empire.co in the description now enters
mCP and what does mCP mean I think the
simplest way right without getting too
technicals I've read the threads too and
as a technical person I appreciate it
but for the non- Tey I can assume it's
frustrating think of it this way think
of every tool that I have to connect to
to make my llm valuable um as a
different language so tool one's English
tool two is Spanish tool three is
Japanese right and imagine every tool
it's its own language and it's not that
there isn't a standard for how apis work
but every service provider constructs
their apis differently there's different
information you have to pass there's
just various degree of of of of things
that you have to set up that again it
just feels like gluing
a bunch of different things together
will it work yes but at scale it gets
very diff difficult mCP you can consider
it to be a layer between your llm and
the services and the tools and this
layer translates all those different
languages into a unified language that
makes complete sense to the llm right so
it's the evolution of llm plus tools but
in this Evolution it just makes it makes
it very simple for the llm to connect
and to access different outside
resources right because that's what
tools are at the end of the day so with
mCP I'm able to connect to an outside
data source an outside database maybe um
a tool like uh convex or superbase right
um imagine I I just tell the llm you
know what create me a new entry in my
database and it it's connected to my
database via mCP and it knows exactly
what to do and how to do in the second
evolution llms and tools there's a lot
of manual work that goes on there's a
lot of stepbystep planning that you have
to do and there's a lot of edge cases
where it can fail and this is why again
none of us as exciting as the space is
none of us have a Jarvis level assistant
yet it feels like we're there and we're
close but this system makes it so that
it's very diff and what's frustrating is
this imagine let me think of a simple
service a simple like you know tool
imagine um every time a slack message
comes your llm reads that slack message
and it shoots you a text right sounds
pretty trivial here's the frustrating
part imagine slack updates their API or
the text service updates makes a change
and let's say that service is connected
to other services or you have some sort
of like automation step-by-step thing
that you've
planned it becomes a nightmare it
becomes terrifying and this is why even
in the age of llms good Engineers will
still get paid because stuff like this
like this exists but what mCP does it
unifies the llm and the service right it
creates this this uh layer where the
service and the llm can communicate
efficiently now
let's get into some practicality you can
think of the mCP ecosystem as follows
you have an mCP client you have the
protocol you have an mCP server and you
have a service right an mCP client is
something like Tempo wind surf
cursor and they are basically the client
facing side the llm facing side of this
ecosystem
the protocol again is that two-way
connection between the client and the
server and the server is what translate
translates that external service its
capabilities and what it can do to the
client and that's why between the mCP
client and the mCP server there's the
mCP protocol but here's the fascinating
part and this is why I think anthropic
they're playing 3D chess when they built
this is the way this is architected the
mCP server is now in the hands of the
service provider so if let's say me and
Greg run a Dev Tool company right where
maybe we're doing a database right like
we're like listen we're going to build
the best database company in the world
and we want people's llms to have access
to this database it is now on us to
construct this mCP server so that the
client can fully access this so
anthropic in a way sort of said listen
we want our llms to be more powerful
more capable uh but it's your job to
figure this out and this is why you've
noticed all the external service
providers are now building different mCP
servers they're building out repos and
all this stuff right so this is a big
deal in a sense where llms are going to
be more capable but from a technological
perspective all they did was create a
standard a standard that it seems like
all companies and all Engineers are
going to upon because you can construct
any system any API however you please
the problem is if you want to scale you
want to grow you want other developers
other businesses to connect and work
with your service it has to be in a
fashion that makes sense for them
imagine if all of us just spoke
different languages but standards allow
us to communicate in a way that makes
sense to all of us and mCP is that for
llms because llms by themselves are not
that capable they're just they're
they're they're they're systems that
have great predictability and they know
how to predict the next word but when
you can when you add this mCP protocol
as a whole you now have a way for it to
be capable of doing important stuff now
understanding all this it's not all
sunshine and rainbows there are some
technical challenges if you notice if
anyone has set up an mCP um server on
any of their favorite mCP clients
it's annoying um there's a lot of
downloading you have to move this file
you have to copy this that and the third
um and it's a lot of local stuff there
are some Kinks that have to be figured
out uh but once this is figured out or
finalized polished or maybe they update
the standard or maybe someone comes up
with a better one we start to enter a
world where llms start to become more
capable and that is literally all what
mCP is just making llms more capable
we're trying we're doing that with tools
right now it's kind of working um but
mCP seems to be the next Evolution I
think Greg I saw your latest video um
Manis Manis is a great example of number
two they have tons of tools and kudos to
them they've engineer engineered it well
in a way where you know they well they
work well cohesively I didn't get to try
it out so I'm just looking at what
people have done but I can tell you this
it's a lot lot of engineering hours it's
a lot of one change happens something
broke someone's on call and not sleeping
but with mCP um it's structured in a way
where um if we all follow this um
standard um the llm will have access to
everything it needs um and we will all
be happy users so in short that is
literally all what mCP is it's not um
Einstein's fifth law of physics or
anything crazy like that it's literally
standard for llms and it's exciting it's
something to be excited about um and
yeah I hope I hope that clarified I just
kept ramling so I apologize for that gr
no no this is this is exactly what I
wanted I want to end on one question for
you so this is now clear to me crystal
clear to me what mcps are but my
question is well before I even ask my
question every time there's been a
popularized protocol for example https
or uh
SMTP
um examples like that there's been a lot
of big businesses that were created on
top of it and there's been basically
this like why now you know why this just
opening of opportunities yeah the
average person listening to this
podcast is building out their
ideas is this does this matter or you at
all for that person like yeah I think
that's a great question I think if I
were so I'll speak to the technical and
the non- technical to the technical
there's a lot of things that a technical
person can do here I I just don't have
time Greg but one thing I was thinking
of was like an mCP App Store and I'll
just give this idea out for free because
this this podcast is all about ideas
basically there's a lot of these repos
out there um of mCP servers and it'd be
cool if someone can go on a site I even
bought the domain um it does nothing but
again please anybody like steal this
idea um um I bought the domain and it'd
be cool if someone could um go on U like
look at the different mCP servers there
they they see the GitHub code and
whatever and they can click like install
or deploy and they that server is
deployed and gives them a specific URL
and then they can paste that in an mCP
client and work that out so for the
technical person if you make millions
all I ask is just you know send me ,000
but for the non-technical person what I
would really focus on is I would just
stay up to date with the platforms that
are building out mCP capability and just
see where the standards are going right
because like you said um when these
standards are finalized I don't know if
mCP has fully won I think it needs to be
challenged um or I don't know if
anthropic is going to make an update we
don't know it's very early but I would
say keep very close attention to what
the final standard is going to be
because once that standard is finalized
and all these service providers start to
like you know build out their mCP or
whatever thing it is you can now start
to integrate much seamlessly and much
easier right this is why again every
week There's a new chatbot interface
with new tools and it wins because this
part step number two is not easy right
especially making it cohesive and making
it work fast right like I can sit in two
hours and build something like this but
building out that user experience making
it Flawless limiting the hallucinations
it's very very hard I mean this is a lot
of the work we do at Tempo but this
makes it so that integrating is a lot
easier and you can think of these as
like Lego pieces that you can continue
to stack to stack so for my smart and
wise business owners startup uh ideas
podcast enjoyers I would really just
keep a close attention right I think
even for myself I don't think with this
mCP stuff we're at a place where any
shots can be fired that make um any
smart business decision but this is one
of those things where you just you sit
and you watch and you're just observing
and learning and when the right thing at
the right time happens you strike so I
don't see any crazy business
opportunities right now for a
non-technical person even for a
technical person like imagine if open AI
comes with a standard tomorrow and we
all just shift to that right it's very
early stages but I think understanding
how this works means you'll understand
how the next thing works and when that
becomes fin finalized you hit the ground
running amen all
right Ross Mike Professor Ross Mike
there's no one like you we'll include in
the show notes where you can follow him
for more really clear explanations
around this whole AI coding world and uh
dude I'll see you in Miami in a few
weeks yeah man I appreciate you I'm
booking my flight soon so yeah
definitely bro I'll see you soon thank
you everybody
[Music]